In the last video, we introduced
the business model canvas as a tool.
To make sure you're anchored in what's
really valuable and important to
the company where you're going to do
your IT enterprise software project.
In this video,
we're going to answer the first of three
really critical questions that we need
to answer to be thoughtful about what
we put in this business model canvas.
This is our key tool, this will
help us drive to more meaningful,
better validated problem scenarios.
So we don't create enterprise
software that no one wants and
no one finds valuable.
This question, more than anything else,
is really the independent variable.
And the driver for the contents of
the rest of the business model.
Here's an example of what this might look
like for Home Depot, you can see here,
different customer segments.
So these might be themselves personas, or
sets of personas about people
that shop at Home Depot.
And here are some made up by me, and
I am not an expert on hardware retail.
Value propositions that seem like they're
important for such an organization.
And these arrows that you see here,
like the red arrow, the gray arrow.
These say that, okay, for example,
contractors find, hypothetically,
this value proposition and
this value proposition, most important.
And basically, this is what we want
to arrive at by the end of the video.
So, take a minute, and think about
the customer segments for your business,
are there multiple parts?
Like, for example, eBay has buyers and
sellers, those are at least two segments.
What are they, and
take a minute and write those down.
Here's what those looks like for
United Children's Theater.
So basically you have children
are really the end users.
But they, of course,
arrange these things and
participate in them with the assistance
and guidance of their parents.
Teachers and administrators of the public
schools guide the students to go ahead and
enroll in these programs,
if they're interested.
And they manage the logistics, for
instance, of a school coming and
seeing a play.
And then finally, these are non profit and
they have donors who help support them.
Now we look at value proposition.
So what are the really, really compelling
reasons that a customer buys your product,
uses your service, whatever it is?
What are they getting out of it that's
important to them and uniquely compelling?
Take a minute and
think about that for your project.
And remember, if you're not sure, the best
thing to do here is not to hand a blank
business model canvas to your boss,
or your manager.
But I would say, in most cases,
it's to sketch out a bunch of ideas for
them to react to.
And make it easy for
them to help you edit these things.
So even if you're not positive about
these, and it's not your job to define
this, my advice is,
take a few minutes, sketch it out.
It'll make it quicker for
you to get to a nice, quick,
workable answer on these things that
will help you proceed with your project.
Here's what these look like for
United Children's Theater.
It's got to be affordable,
they're having an outsource arts function,
is a great thing for these folks.
Cultivating the arts locally, and
improving the quality of education for
low income pupils is something
that's important for donors.
And this is, of course,
important for parents and
the children benefit from it as well.
And here's what this would look like
sketched out on the business model canvas.
These arrows, just like you saw with the
Home Depot example, are linking segments
and the value propositions that
are particularly compelling to them.
We'll show you this in
some of the examples.
But I recommend actually sitting down with
a paper version of this canvas first,
sketching these things out.
I'm also going to show you
a Google Doc that you can use,
if you want to have something that's
editable, and sharable, and presentable.
But it's a little more
cumbersome to work with,
and I think you'll find it easiest to
sketch this out on a piece of paper.
Or a printed version of
the business model canvas,
which we've supplied in
the lesson materials.
So here,
we've see how to look at this really key
relationship between these two things.
And this thing that drives
the rest of the business model.
In the next two videos,
we'll look at the customer journey, and
we'll pencil these things out here.
And then we'll look at what's
strategically important to the business
and we'll do these items here,
key activities and key resources.